\*

We are running programs on a machine where values of type `int` have a 32-bit two's-complement representation. Values of type `float` use the 32-bit IEEE format, and values of type `double` use the 64-bit IEEE format.

We generate arbitrary integer values x, y, and z, and convert them to values of type `double` as follows:

```c
/* Create some arbitrary values */
int x = random();
int y = random();
int z = random();
/* Convert to double */
double   dx = (double) x;
double   dy = (double) y;
double   dz = (double) z;
```

For each of the following C expression, you are to indicate whether or not the expression *always* yields 1. If it always yields 1, describe the underlying mathematical principles. Otherwise, give an example of arguments that make it yields 0. Note that you cannot use an IA32 machine running `GCC` to test your answer, since it would use the 80-bit extended-precision representation for both `float` and `double`.

### A.
`(float) x == (float) dx`

### B.
`dx - dy == (double) (x-y)`

### C.
`(dx + dy) + dz == dx + (dy + dz)`

### D.
`(dx * dy) * dz == dx * (dy * dz)`

### E.
`dx / dx == dz / dz`

## Answer

### A.
True. `double` can save any 32-bit integer without loss of accuracy. So there is no difference between first cast `int32_t` to `double` then `float` and cast `int32_t` directly to `float`.

### B.
Not always true, when `x-y` overflows, the result of `(double) x - (double) y != (double) (x - y)`.

### C.
True, `double` can save any 53-bit integer without any loss of accuracy. The sum of three 32-bit integers never exceed 53 bits, so there will not be loss of accuracy.

### D.
Not always true, the product of two integers might exceed 53 bits, so there might be loss of accuracy. The multiplication of binary64 (`double`) is not associative when there is accuracy loss.

### E.
if and only if one of `x` or `z` is 0, the expression yields `false`.
