\*\*

Figure 3.54(a) shows the code for a function that is similar to function `vfunct` (Figure 3.43(a)). We used `vfunct` to illustrate the use of a frame pointer in managing variable-size stack frames. The new function `aframe` allocates space for local array `p` by calling library function `alloca`. This function is similar to the more commonly used function `malloc`, except that it allocates space on the run time stack. The space is automatically deallocated when the executing procedure returns.

Figure 3.54(b) shows the part of the assembly code that sets up the frame pointer and allocates space for local variables `i` and `p`. It is very similar to the corresponding code for `vframe`. Let us use the same notation as in Problem 3.49: The stack pointer is set to values *s*1 at line 4 and *s*2 at line 7. The start address of array `p` is set to value *p* at line 9. Extra space *e*2 may arise between *s*2 and *p*, and extra space *e*1 may arise between the end of array `p` and *s*1.

(a) C code

```c
long aframe(long n, long idx, long *q)  {
    long i;
    long *p[n];
    p[0] = &i;
    for (i = 1; i < n; i++)
        p[i] = q;
    return *p[idx];
}
```

(b) Portions of generated assembly code

```
# long aframe(long n, long idx, long *q)
# n in %rdi, idx in %rsi, q in %rdx
# Only portions of code shown
aframe:
  pushq   %rbp
  movq    %rsp, %rbp
  subq    $16, %rsp                 ;   Allocate space for i (%rsp = s1)
  leaq    30(,%rdi,8), %rax
  andq    $-16, %rax
  subq    %rax, %rsp
  leaq    15(%rsp), %r8
  andq    $-16, %r8                 ;   Set %r8 to &p[0]
# .
# .
# .
```

**Figure 3.43  Function requiring the use of a frame pointer.** The variable-size array implies that the size of the stack frame cannot be determined at compile time.

### A.
Explain, in mathematical terms, the logic in the computation of *s*2.

### B.
Explain, in mathematical terms, the logic in the computation of *p*.

### C.
Find values of *n* and *s*1 that lead to minimum and maximum of *e*1.

### D.
What alignment properties does this code guarantee for the values of *s*2 and *p*?

## Answer

### A.
s2 = s1 - floor((30 + n * 8) / 16) * 16

### B.
p = floor((s2 + 15) / 16) * 16

### C.
When *n* is even, *e* is minimum, 16. Otherwise *e* is maximum, 24.

### D.
*p* is always 16 bytes alignment, and *s*2 is always 8 bytes alignment.
